# FASTER Key Policies

See: [TAMU High Performance Research Computing
Policies](https://hprc.tamu.edu/policies/) for more information.

## National Security

HPRC is administered as an open facility providing computing resources
to all legitimate TAMU users. Regardless of this situation, it is a
violation of university and US government policy to use Neumann in a
manner that does not abide with the provisions and restrictions of the
Export Administration Regulations (EAR) of the US Department of State
and those related to the International Trafficking in Arms Regulations
(ITAR) of the US Department of Defense.

By policy, all PI's and HPRC users must not use any TAMU HPRC resources
in a manner that violates EAR or ITAR with respect to software, data, or
hardware.

## Data Storage

1\) On all compute servers, disk storage is provided only for files
directly needed for or deriving from computing on these servers.

2\) On all compute servers, the scratch directories are NOT for
long-term storage. Such storage is provided to meet the current needs of
your computation. For that reason, when nominal file quotas have been
exceeded the staff will occasionally delete enough files to meet current
processing loads. Prior notice and appeal to users to reduce file space
occupancy will be sent.

3\) Only home directories are backed up daily (and automatically) on to
the archive system. Non-home files are not backed up. Such files, if
valuable enough, can only be archived onto the SC archive system by you.
Elsewhere in this guide we show you how to do that.

## Passwords

By university regulation and The State of Texas law, it is illegal for
users of state computing systems to share passwords and computer
accounts.
