# Hosting a Credit-Bearing Class with HPRC Resources

## Information

Texas A\&M High Performance Research Computing often receives requests
to support courses at Texas A\&M which require the use of High
Performance Research Computing Resources. **Professors are strongly
encouraged to reach out to High Performance Research Computing for
assistance in the administration of accounts for students enrolled in
such classes.** For more in-depth information on who can apply which
type of accounts, as well as information pertaining to different types
of accounts, please refer to the [Resource Allocation
Policy](https://hprc.tamu.edu/policies/allocations.html) on our website.
For information regarding the TAMU HPRC clusters and guides for
configuring your SSH client, see the [ Detailed
Access](/kb3/Helpful-Pages/Access/HPRC@Access.md "wikilink") page.

## Procedure

### Application for Accounts

Instructors teaching the courses should instruct their students to
individually apply for Basic accounts via the [Account Management
System](https://hprc.tamu.edu/apply/) on our website. When applying,
students should list the instructor as their PI and indicate that the
account will be used in connection with that specific course. Basic
accounts typically take 2-3 business days to process and approve.

As with all Basic accounts, students will be allocated 5,000 SU's. If
additional SU's are required by a student, their PI will be responsible
for sub-allocating SU's from an eligible Startup or Research Account.Per
policy, HPRC cannot allocate additional SU's to Basic accounts.

### Instructor Responsibilities

**Instructors are highly encouraged to apply for a Startup account.**

Instructors should, as early as possible, supply High Performance
Research Computing with a list of students enrolled in their class to be
used for validation of student applications.

Instructors are also responsible for supplying additional SU's to
students who deplete their Basic allocation of 5,000 SU's. These
additional SU's must be sub-allocated from a Startup or Research Account
in the name of the Instructor who was listed as the PI of the student.

It is also the responsibility of the Instructor to provide HPRC, *by the
official census date for the corresponding semester*, with a list of
students who have dropped the course.

**Instructors are also highly encouraged to inform HPRC of any critical
dates for class projects that need a particular cluster (to help us
schedule cluster maintenance accordingly).**

### Student Responsibilities

**Students are encouraged to read the appropriate system guide.**

  - [ Grace Guide](/kb3/User-Guides/Grace/Grace@QuickStart/ "wikilink")
  - [ Terra Guide](/kb3/User-Guides/Terra/Terra@QuickStart/  "wikilink")

Each student must [apply](https://hprc.tamu.edu/apply/) for their own
individual Basic account. Each student should mention in their
application that this Basic account is for use with their corresponding
class.

**NOTE:** A student may only have *ONE* basic account per fiscal year.
If a student already has a basic account with HPRC, there is no need to
apply for an account for use with their class.

Students should familiarize themselves with the basic usage policies of
the machines.

## List of Classes that have used HPRC Resources

**• AERO 402**: Aerospace Vehicle Design II

**• AERO 643**: High-Performance Computational Fluid Dynamics

**• ASTR 420**: Advanced Astrophysical Research

**• BCBP 689**: Big Data Fundamentals

**• BICH 414**: Biochemical Techniques I

**• BIMS 491**: Research

**• BIOL 647-600**: Digital Biology

**• BIOL 650-600**: Genomics (Galaxy)

**• BMEN 443/689**: Biomolecular and Cellular Engineering Laboratory

**• CHEM 326**: Physical Chemistry Laboratory II

**• CHEM 641**: Structural Inorganic Chemistry

**• CHEM 658**: Introduction to Molecular Modeling

**• CHEN 491**: Undergraduate Research

**• CPSC 659**: Parallel and Distributed Numerical Algorithms

**• CPSC 636**: Deep Learning

**• CPSC 689**: SPTP: Reinforcement Learning

**• CSCE 435**: Parallel Computing

**• CSCE 678**: Distributed Systems and Cloud Computing

**• CSCE 482**: Senior Capstone Design

**• CSCE 735**: Parallel Computing

**• ECEN 689**: Special Topics in Scientific Machine Learning

**• GENE 689-600**: Bioinformatics Command Line

**• GENE 689-601**: Metagenomics Data Analysis

**• MARB 433**: Applied Bioinformatics

**• MATH 647**: Mathematical Modeling

**• MEEN 399**: Mathematical Modeling

**• MSEN 655**: Materials Design Studio

**• PHYS 619**: Modern Computational Physics

**• STAT 624**: Databases and Computational Tools Used in Big Data

**• STAT 689**: Large-Scale Inference & Covariance Estimation

**• PHEB 602**: Biostatistics I (Spring 2019)

**• PHEB 606**: Survival Analysis (Spring 2019)

**• PHEB 609**: Categorical Data Analysis (Spring 2019)

**• PHEB 614**: Analysis of Longitudinal and Multilevel Data (Spring
2019)
